Having a local printer is all well and good until somebody puts an eye out,
oh no, wait a minute, no.
Let me rephrase.
Having a local printer is fine if it's just your printer,
but in a shared workgroup environment at work,
you're likely to share a bigger print device that offers more
functionality and is generally more expensive than what the business
can afford to give each user individually.
It's frankly a waste to give each user their own printer when
we can take advantage of network printing.
First though, beginning in Windows 8,
Microsoft invented a new driver specification call the V4 driver model.
Now, at the end of this module,
I'll point you to a related course in the Pluralsight
library that has much better coverage on printer drivers
and their history and operations, but for our purposes,
I want you to know that this V4 driver model that's used in Windows 8,
8.
1, and 10 has some huge advantages over previous older printer driver models.
Number one, in a network environment,
the server doesn't send the driver to the client.
The way it always has been historically is that the user goes to print,
and if the client device, for whatever reason,
doesn't have the driver for that network printer,
it gets downloaded from the server.
Well that can have many possible things that can go wrong.
It's inefficient, especially for wide-area network connections.
With V4 Driver Model, you have driver delivery not coming from the server,
but either coming natively on each Windows 10 device using its driver store,
or alternatively downloading the drivers from Windows Update.
Now if you're wondering what W-S-U-S, or WSUS is,
that's essentially a business version of Windows Update.
We'll talk about that in due time.
We also have with the V4 driver model the ability to get robust
support for different printers with a single driver instead of the
problem of having what we used to have,
each print server would have multiple copies of the same driver,
one for certain operating systems, one for another set of operating systems,
one for 32-bit hardware, another for 64-bit hardware.
We now have a one-to-many relationship as long as the printer manufacturer
develops their driver to correspond to the V4 standard.
The driver files are also smaller, or made more efficient.
That's about all you need to know for a V4.
Know that in general,
as long as your client computers are running at least Windows 8 and
your servers are running at least Windows Server 2012, you want to ensure that all of your print drivers are V4.